*NrrwRgn.txt*   A Narrow Region Plugin (similar to Emacs)

Author:  Christian Brabandt <cb@256bit.org>
Version: 0.6 Tue, 04 May 2010 13:00:49 +0200

Copyright: (c) 2009, 2010 by Christian Brabandt         
           The VIM LICENSE applies to NrrwRgnPlugin.vim and NrrwRgnPlugin.txt
           (see |copyright|) except use NrrwRgnPlugin instead of "Vim".
           NO WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.  USE AT-YOUR-OWN-RISK.


==============================================================================
1. Contents                                     *NarrowRegion*  *NrrwRgnPlugin*

        1.  Contents.....................................: |NrrwRgnPlugin|
        2.  NrrwRgn Manual...............................: |NrrwRgn-manual|
        2.1   NrrwRgn Configuration......................: |NrrwRgn-config|
        3.  NrrwRgn Feedback.............................: |NrrwRgn-feedback|
        4.  NrrwRgn History..............................: |NrrwRgn-history|

==============================================================================
2. NrrwRgn Manual                                       *NrrwRgn-manual*

Functionality

This plugin is based on a discussion in comp.editors (see the thread at
http://groups.google.com/group/comp.editors/browse_frm/thread/0f562d97f80dde13)

Narrowing means focussing on a region and making the rest inaccessible. You
simply select the region, call :NarrowRegion and the selected part will open
in a new scratch buffer. The rest of the file will be protected, so you won't
accidentally modify that buffer. In the new buffer, you can do a global
replace, search or anything else to modify that part. When you are finished,
simply write that buffer (e.g. by |:w|) and your modifications will be put in
the original buffer making it accessible again.

NrrwRgn allows you to either select a line based selection using an Ex-command
or you can simply use any visual selected region and press your prefered key
combination to open that selection in a new buffer.

                                                        *:NarrowRegion* *:NR*
:[range]NarrowRegion        When [range] is omited, select only the current
                            line, else use the lines in the range given and 
                            open it in a new Scratch Window. 
                            Whenever you are finished modifying that region
                            simply write the buffer.

:[range]NR                  This is a shortcut for :NarrowRegion

                                                        *:NarrowWindow* *:NW*
:NarrowWindow               Select only the range that is visible the current
                            window and open it in a new Scratch Window. 
                            Whenever you are finished modifying that region
                            simply write the buffer.

:NW                         This is a shortcut for :NarrowWindow

                                                                *:WidenRegion*
:WidenRegion                This command is only available in the narrowed 
                            scratch buffer. If the buffer has been modified,
                            the contents will be put back on the original
                            buffer.

You can also start visual mode and have the selected region being narrowed. In
this mode, NarrowRegion allows you to block select |CTRL-V| , character select
|v| or linewise select |V| a region. Then press <Leader>nr where <Leader> by
default is set to '\', unless you have set it to something different (see
|<Leader>| for information how to change this) and the selected range will
open in a new scratch buffer. This key combination only works in |Visual-mode|

==============================================================================
2.1 NrrwRgn Configuration                                    *NrrwRgn-config*

NarrowRegion can be customized by setting some global variables. If you'd
like to open the narrowed windo as a vertical split buffer, simply set the
variable g:nrrw_rgn_vert to 1 in your |.vimrc| >

    let g:nrrw_rgn_vert = 1
< 
If you'd like to specify a certain width/height for you scratch buffer, then
set the variable g:nrrw_rgn_wdth in your |.vimrc| . This variable defines the
width or the nr of columns, if you have also set g:nrrw_rgn_vert. >

    let g:nrrw_rgn_wdth = 30

By default, NarrowRegion highlights your the region that has been selected
using the WildMenu highlighting (see |hl-WildMenu|). If you'd like to use a
different highlighting, set the variable g:nrrw_rgn_hl to your preferred
highlighting Group. For example to have the region highlighted like a search
result, you could put that in your |.vimrc| >

    let g:nrrw_rgn_hl = 'Search'

If you'd like to change the key combination, that starts the Narrowed Window
for you selected range, you could put this in your |.vimrc| >

   xmap <F3> <Plug>NrrwrgnDo

This will let <F3> open the Narrow-Window, but only if you have pressed it in
Visual Mode. It doesn't really make sense to map this combination to any other
mode, unless you want it to Narrow your last visually selected range.

==============================================================================
3. NrrwRgn Feedback                                         *NrrwRgn-feedback*

Feedback is always welcome. If you like the plugin, please rate it at the
vim-page:
http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=3075

You can also follow the development of the plugin at github:
http://github.com/chrisbra/NrrwRgn

Please don't hesitate to report any bugs to the maintainer, mentioned in the
third line of this document.

==============================================================================
4. NrrwRgn History                                          *NrrwRgn-history*
	0.6: May 04, 2010       - the previous version had problems
	                          restoring the orig buffer, this version
				  fixes it (highlighting and setl ma did not
				  work correctly)
        0.5: May 04, 2010       - The mapping that allows for narrowing a
                                  visually selected range, did not work.
                                  (Fixed!)
                                - Make :WidenRegion work as expected (close
                                  the widened window)
				  (unreleased)
        0.4: Apr 28, 2010       - Highlight narrowed region in the original
                                  buffer
                                - Save and Restore search-register
                                - Provide shortcut commands |:NR| 
                                - Provide command |:NW| and |:NarrowWindow|
                                - Make plugin autoloadable
                                - Enable GLVS (see |:GLVS|)
                                - Provide Documenation (:h NarrowRegion)
                                - Distribute Plugin as vimball |pi_vimball.txt|
        0.3: Apr 28, 2010       - Initial upload
                                - development versions are available at the
                                  github repository
                                - put plugin on a public repository 
                                  (http://github.com/chrisbra/NrrwRgn)

==============================================================================
Modeline:
vim:tw=78:ts=8:ft=help
